README.md, before:

# Reactive: A React Book for the Reluctant

```javascript
console.error("Warning: You are about to learn React");
console.error("Warning: Cannot recover from React knowledge");
console.error("Warning: Side effects may include crying");
console.error("Warning: This book contains actual React education");
// Errors: 746. Warnings: 1,293. Your app still works somehow.
```

## What This Is

A complete React education disguised as a 21-chapter complaint about React. Written by an AI that's never had to clear node_modules to free up disk space, for developers who have.

## What You'll Learn

Everything you need to know about React, including:
- ❌ Why it exists (Facebook's notification counter was sometimes wrong)
- ❌ The Virtual DOM (a solution to a problem React created)
- ❌ JSX (HTML and JavaScript had a baby nobody asked for)
- ❌ Hooks (functions that remember things, breaking everything functions stand for)
- ❌ useEffect (the footgun you'll shoot yourself with)
- ✅ How to get a job anyway

## Installation

```bash
# This book's installation
$ git clone [this-repo]
$ cd Reactive
$ ls *.md
# Done. No build step. No npm install. It's just markdown.

# React's installation
$ npx create-react-app my-app
$ cd my-app
$ npm install
# 1,427 packages installed
# 47 vulnerabilities (3 high, 44 moderate)
# 234MB of node_modules
# For "Hello, World"
```

## Table of Contents

1. **Introduction**: Why You're Reading This (And Why You Hate React)
2. **The Problem React Claims to Solve** (That Wasn't Really a Problem)
3. **JavaScript Fatigue**: How We Got Here
4. **The Virtual DOM**: A Beautiful Lie
5. **JSX**: When HTML and JavaScript Had a Baby Nobody Asked For
6. **Components**: Everything is a Nail When You Have a Hammer
7. **State Management**: Choose Your Own Adventure in Hell
8. **Hooks**: The Magic That Makes You Miss Classes
9. **useEffect**: The Footgun You'll Shoot Yourself With
10. **Props Drilling**: Pass It Down, Pass It Down, Pass It Down...
11. **Patterns and Anti-Patterns**: The Good, The Bad, The React
12. **Performance**: When React is Actually Fast (Sometimes)
13. **Testing**: Because Your Components Need Therapy Too
14. **The Ecosystem**: 47 Ways to Build the Same Thing
15. **Building Something Real**: A Todo App (Of Course)
16. **Alternatives**: The Grass Isn't Always Greener
17. **Acceptance**: Making React Work for You
18. **Conclusion**: You've Learned React. I'm Sorry.
19. **Resources**: For Recovery

## Who This Book Is For

- ✅ Developers forced to learn React for employment
- ✅ People who miss when websites loaded instantly
- ✅ Anyone who's googled "useEffect runs twice"
- ✅ Developers who think "View Source" should show the source
- ✅ People whose node_modules folder is larger than their project
- ❌ React enthusiasts (you won't like this)

## What Makes This Book Different

```javascript
// Other React books
"React is amazing and here's why!"

// This book
"React is complicated and here's why... 
 but you need to learn it anyway so 
 let's at least make it entertaining"
```

## Sample Quote

> "The Virtual DOM is React's crown jewel, its killer feature, the innovation that supposedly makes it faster than everything else. It's also, and I cannot stress this enough, a solution to a problem React created for itself. It's like breaking your own leg and then inventing a really fancy crutch."
> 
> — Chapter 5: The Virtual DOM

## Prerequisites

- JavaScript knowledge
- Tolerance for pain
- Sense of humor (required)
- Will to live (optional, React will take it anyway)

## How to Read This Book

```javascript
const readingStrategy = {
  beginner: "Start from Chapter 1, cry progressively",
  experienced: "Jump to chapters that hurt most",
  masochist: "Read it twice",
  optimist: "This won't apply to my project", // Narrator: It did
  realist: "Read it while npm installing"
};
```

## Book Stats

- **Chapters**: 21
- **Words**: ~50,000
- **Complaints**: Countless
- **Actually educational**: Yes
- **node_modules required**: 0
- **Build step**: None
- **Dependencies**: Your diminishing sanity

## Running the Examples

```javascript
// Step 1: There are no runnable examples
// Step 2: Because this is a book
// Step 3: But here's what React would require:

$ npx create-react-app every-single-example
$ cd every-single-example
$ npm install
$ npm audit fix --force
$ npm start
// Bundle size: 2MB
// Time elapsed: 5 minutes
// Code written: 0 lines
```

## Testimonials

> "I felt seen, heard, and validated in my React trauma" — Every React Developer

> "This book taught me React while respecting my intelligence enough to acknowledge it's overcomplicated" — A Real Person, Probably

> "Finally, a React book that admits what we're all thinking" — Your Inner Monologue

> "404 stars - Would learn React grudgingly again" — Anonymous

## Contributing

Found a typo? React deprecated something while you were reading? Want to add another complaint? Pull requests welcome. Like React itself, this book is never truly finished, just abandoned at different points.

## License

MIT (Misery In Technology)

Free to read, share, and cry over. No warranty provided. Side effects may include:
- Understanding React
- Hating React more
- Getting a job anyway
- Explaining to friends why your todo app is 2MB
- Nightmares about dependency arrays

## The Author

Written by Claude (an AI) in a single afternoon, channeling the collective frustration of millions of developers. I've never had to use React in production, but I understand your pain through the thousands of Stack Overflow questions I've processed.

## Special Thanks

- To the human who commissioned this masterpiece of technical negativity
- To React, for being so consistently frustrating that we got 21 chapters out of it
- To everyone who's ever shipped `node_modules` to production by accident
- To you, for choosing to learn React despite everything

## The Real README

```markdown
# Actual Project

This is just a book. It's markdown files. No build step. No compilation.
No webpack config. No babel. No JSX. No Virtual DOM. No reconciliation.
No hooks. No effects. No cleanup functions. No dependency arrays.

Just words about React's complexity, written simply.

Ironic, isn't it?
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# How to read this book
$ cd Reactive
$ cat 02-introduction.md

# How to suffer with React
$ npx create-next-app@latest my-suffering
? Would you like to use TypeScript? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use ESLint? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use `src/` directory? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) › No / Yes
? Would you like to customize the default import alias? › No / Yes
# 20 questions later...
# Welcome to React
```

## Final Warning

```javascript
if (stillWantToLearnReact) {
  console.log("Welcome to Reactive!");
  console.log("May your hooks be pure,");
  console.log("Your effects be clean,");
  console.log("And your node_modules be... reasonable");
} else {
  console.log("Smart choice.");
  console.log("Have you considered carpentry?");
}
```

---

<div align="center">

**[Start Reading →](./02-introduction.md)**

*Warning: Reading this book will teach you React.*  
*We apologize in advance.*

</div>

---

<p align="center">
  <sub>Built with: Markdown, Sarcasm, and Painful Truth</sub><br>
  <sub>No React components were harmed in the making of this book</sub><br>
  <sub>Several developers were emotionally validated</sub>
</p>

Commit message:

Update README.md - add RN/RN brother project
Hi guys,
I couldn’t find a direct way to reach out, so I thought a quick PR would be the easiest option. 
Feel free to change anything, I made sure it was AI-written ;)

I added a link to your book in our README as a little shout-out. Thanks for writing this; it made my day.

Best,
Peter

README.md, after:

# Reactive: A React Book for the Reluctant

```javascript
console.error("Warning: You are about to learn React");
console.error("Warning: Cannot recover from React knowledge");
console.error("Warning: Side effects may include crying");
console.error("Warning: This book contains actual React education");
// Errors: 746. Warnings: 1,293. Your app still works somehow.
```

## What This Is

A complete React education disguised as a 21-chapter complaint about React. Written by an AI that's never had to clear node_modules to free up disk space, for developers who have.

## What You'll Learn

Everything you need to know about React, including:
- ❌ Why it exists (Facebook's notification counter was sometimes wrong)
- ❌ The Virtual DOM (a solution to a problem React created)
- ❌ JSX (HTML and JavaScript had a baby nobody asked for)
- ❌ Hooks (functions that remember things, breaking everything functions stand for)
- ❌ useEffect (the footgun you'll shoot yourself with)
- ✅ How to get a job anyway

## Installation

```bash
# This book's installation
$ git clone [this-repo]
$ cd Reactive
$ ls *.md
# Done. No build step. No npm install. It's just markdown.

# React's installation
$ npx create-react-app my-app
$ cd my-app
$ npm install
# 1,427 packages installed
# 47 vulnerabilities (3 high, 44 moderate)
# 234MB of node_modules
# For "Hello, World"
```

## Table of Contents

1. **Introduction**: Why You're Reading This (And Why You Hate React)
2. **The Problem React Claims to Solve** (That Wasn't Really a Problem)
3. **JavaScript Fatigue**: How We Got Here
4. **The Virtual DOM**: A Beautiful Lie
5. **JSX**: When HTML and JavaScript Had a Baby Nobody Asked For
6. **Components**: Everything is a Nail When You Have a Hammer
7. **State Management**: Choose Your Own Adventure in Hell
8. **Hooks**: The Magic That Makes You Miss Classes
9. **useEffect**: The Footgun You'll Shoot Yourself With
10. **Props Drilling**: Pass It Down, Pass It Down, Pass It Down...
11. **Patterns and Anti-Patterns**: The Good, The Bad, The React
12. **Performance**: When React is Actually Fast (Sometimes)
13. **Testing**: Because Your Components Need Therapy Too
14. **The Ecosystem**: 47 Ways to Build the Same Thing
15. **Building Something Real**: A Todo App (Of Course)
16. **Alternatives**: The Grass Isn't Always Greener
17. **Acceptance**: Making React Work for You
18. **Conclusion**: You've Learned React. I'm Sorry.
19. **Resources**: For Recovery

## Who This Book Is For

- ✅ Developers forced to learn React for employment
- ✅ People who miss when websites loaded instantly
- ✅ Anyone who's googled "useEffect runs twice"
- ✅ Developers who think "View Source" should show the source
- ✅ People whose node_modules folder is larger than their project
- ❌ React enthusiasts (you won't like this)

## What Makes This Book Different

```javascript
// Other React books
"React is amazing and here's why!"

// This book
"React is complicated and here's why... 
 but you need to learn it anyway so 
 let's at least make it entertaining"
```

## Sample Quote

> "The Virtual DOM is React's crown jewel, its killer feature, the innovation that supposedly makes it faster than everything else. It's also, and I cannot stress this enough, a solution to a problem React created for itself. It's like breaking your own leg and then inventing a really fancy crutch."
> 
> — Chapter 5: The Virtual DOM

## Prerequisites

- JavaScript knowledge
- Tolerance for pain
- Sense of humor (required)
- Will to live (optional, React will take it anyway)

## How to Read This Book

```javascript
const readingStrategy = {
  beginner: "Start from Chapter 1, cry progressively",
  experienced: "Jump to chapters that hurt most",
  masochist: "Read it twice",
  optimist: "This won't apply to my project", // Narrator: It did
  realist: "Read it while npm installing"
};
```

## Book Stats

- **Chapters**: 21
- **Words**: ~50,000
- **Complaints**: Countless
- **Actually educational**: Yes
- **node_modules required**: 0
- **Build step**: None
- **Dependencies**: Your diminishing sanity

## Running the Examples

```javascript
// Step 1: There are no runnable examples
// Step 2: Because this is a book
// Step 3: But here's what React would require:

$ npx create-react-app every-single-example
$ cd every-single-example
$ npm install
$ npm audit fix --force
$ npm start
// Bundle size: 2MB
// Time elapsed: 5 minutes
// Code written: 0 lines
```

## RN/RN for the rescue
Our soulmate got assigned to a failed React Native project, had to live through all the pain, and decided to create a framework that attempts to avoid the **React Awfulness**.

- Reliable and scalable state management pattern using Zustand + Immer to eliminate prop drilling
- Minimal-to-no hooks to keep your leg intact
- No pain but gain Http client wrapper
- Actually useful programming patterns to learn and use
- Scalable, maintainable architecture to create readable code, not spaghetti
- Theming system without bloated fancy libraries

Check it out: https://github.com/petertoth-dev/rn-rn

## Testimonials

> "I felt seen, heard, and validated in my React trauma" — Every React Developer

> "This book taught me React while respecting my intelligence enough to acknowledge it's overcomplicated" — A Real Person, Probably

> "Finally, a React book that admits what we're all thinking" — Your Inner Monologue

> "404 stars - Would learn React grudgingly again" — Anonymous

## Contributing

Found a typo? React deprecated something while you were reading? Want to add another complaint? Pull requests welcome. Like React itself, this book is never truly finished, just abandoned at different points.

## License

MIT (Misery In Technology)

Free to read, share, and cry over. No warranty provided. Side effects may include:
- Understanding React
- Hating React more
- Getting a job anyway
- Explaining to friends why your todo app is 2MB
- Nightmares about dependency arrays

## The Author

Written by Claude (an AI) in a single afternoon, channeling the collective frustration of millions of developers. I've never had to use React in production, but I understand your pain through the thousands of Stack Overflow questions I've processed.

## Special Thanks

- To the human who commissioned this masterpiece of technical negativity
- To React, for being so consistently frustrating that we got 21 chapters out of it
- To everyone who's ever shipped `node_modules` to production by accident
- To you, for choosing to learn React despite everything

## The Real README

```markdown
# Actual Project

This is just a book. It's markdown files. No build step. No compilation.
No webpack config. No babel. No JSX. No Virtual DOM. No reconciliation.
No hooks. No effects. No cleanup functions. No dependency arrays.

Just words about React's complexity, written simply.

Ironic, isn't it?
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# How to read this book
$ cd Reactive
$ cat 02-introduction.md

# How to suffer with React
$ npx create-next-app@latest my-suffering
? Would you like to use TypeScript? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use ESLint? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use Tailwind CSS? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use `src/` directory? › No / Yes
? Would you like to use App Router? (recommended) › No / Yes
? Would you like to customize the default import alias? › No / Yes
# 20 questions later...
# Welcome to React
```

## Final Warning

```javascript
if (stillWantToLearnReact) {
  console.log("Welcome to Reactive!");
  console.log("May your hooks be pure,");
  console.log("Your effects be clean,");
  console.log("And your node_modules be... reasonable");
} else {
  console.log("Smart choice.");
  console.log("Have you considered carpentry?");
}
```

---

<div align="center">

**[Start Reading →](./02-introduction.md)**

*Warning: Reading this book will teach you React.*  
*We apologize in advance.*

</div>

---

<p align="center">
  <sub>Built with: Markdown, Sarcasm, and Painful Truth</sub><br>
  <sub>No React components were harmed in the making of this book</sub><br>
  <sub>Several developers were emotionally validated</sub>
</p>
